#BEH Meeting
---
##20141007
---
###GIS
####Tree Pollen
* 1) I should be receiving a set of addresses at 11:30 am today from Kate Weinberger for geocoding. This is in regards to the tree pollen study. This includes additional addresses to the enrollment address, which James geocoded (James total n is 588.), and school addresses.
	 * 350 other addresses. School addresses and post enrollment address. 45 monitoring sites. 
* 2) Kate will be sending out a wish list of variables.
	Tree, Traffic, Census, ask about Walkability, etc. NAAAS
* 3) Will we be getting the Black Carbon dataset (from NYCCAS) by a finer time interval (month/week) or should we just use the 2-year avg? 

####MSM
* 4) Called up James yesterday, he created the jittered point shapefile. The jitter is a random point within the bounds of the tract the point fell in. James Eagan did the map, so I’ll fire off a quick map to Bader.  
* 5) Started processing the dataset for MSM. Conservatively, early next week the file will be completed and ready to send out. 

####NETS
* 6) I’m going to also be creating some NETS maps for an animation of kernel densities of healthy food outlets this week. 

####GPS
* 7) Still have 1-2 full days of working on the GPS walks data. 

####Transit

* 8) Downloaded a few census variables about vehicle ownership

	* Since the 1990 data from the US Census is difficult to obtain. The data used in this part of the project was obtained from Social Explorer (access provided by Columbia University). 
	* No auto ownership for 1980 and 1990 and 2000 for Social Explorer (check US Census website). 1970 had 15% tables (not sure what these are).

	* Got Vehicle Ownership data from 2000 Census and 2008-2012 ACS. 

---
##20140930

#####Healthy Food Outlets PAA
* That would be really interesting and perhaps with buffers or kernel densities we could answer/investigate whether the lasso subset selection differently identifies significant characteristics/interactions based on the different spatial measures of food access, and verify/measure improvements in model predictive accuracy. David

* On Thu, Sep 25, 2014 at 1:52 PM, Lovasi, Gina S. 
I think that would be great.  Maybe we could even animate a series of kernel density surfaces across the years?  Anyway, fingers crossed.








##20140923

* Geocode addresses Perzonowski

* And School addresses

* Kate will be sending out a wish list of variables.
* 5%
* Tree, Traffic, Census, ask about Walkability, etc. 
* NAAAS

* enrollment addresses have been geocoded. check with James. 

* Ask Andrew about the Black Carbon dataset by week. 

* 5 rounds. Have James send some stuff. 

* James total n is 588. 

* 350 other addresses. School addresses and post enrollment address. 45 monitoring sites. 


##20140916

1) Wrapped up ATN Aidsvu new data incorporation and data dictionary updates

The pre-2014-09 file only had 274 ZIP code to AIDSVu ZIP’s matches (AIDSVu uses ZCTA 2010). 224 new records now have AIDSVu ZIP level data. 498 ATN ZIP Codes matched an AIDSVu ZIP (AIDSVu uses ZCTA 2010).

2) Sent kathy the 2km buffers for transit and the distance variables. 

3) Need to reply to Vijay for MSM

Complicated enough to have access to their data. 

craft email for MSM and then forward to Andrew before sending to Vijay. 

Add in the latest GPS data with older summer data. 

Ask students which phones they have. 



Getting Addresses from Jose Luchsinger and Dana March.
EPA and NIMHD



##20140902

M2M

how many respondents per tract? 

or how many respondents per UHF?

Tell M2M that bader is going to look at the distribution of the data.

The initial idea is to creat a krigged surface of self reported safety (a surface for each subject minus their actual point)

figure out how clustered the sample. 

get James' status maps. by neighborhood tabulation areas. 




WIC document. 


Transit
Station buffer - what would be the buffers. 









##20140812

Earth Institute - fracking 3 counties - PA, 3 counties - NY - non fracking area

Hopkins - Fracking - Brian Schwartz



NETS biz count total - bring them into the NETS tract database as 0.

*********
send andrew the dataset with the zero's added in and add Kathy's pop density data.
*********

flagged - flagged as potentially health relevant. 

flagged column all the businesses. that were flagged. 


email. 


Send Joe's GPS data to Andrew.






last meeting:

Sally Finley WIC kids

characterize n'hood around WIC centers and WIC participants (NY statewide).

2010. Walk score(? upstate). All State ZIP codes. Daycare. licensure for daycare facilities. 


Community Needs Assessment, Health care, Built Environment.

*******Check time of crash accident from Crash Stat data.*********

Also, here is an updated Tree Canopy (pct of roadbed/sidewalk covered in tree canopy in census block (shared street boundary) of at least 1000 feet) Walk map. I’ll need to remove islands (particularly Rikers :) and perhaps places X distance from any Subway Station before the final selection.
http://cdb.io/1zYHBWd

Some things to consider for discussion tomorrow for Tree and Building walks. 

1) Do we want the students to walk down each segment once or twice? (Joe did two of each).

2) Do we want to randomly select across all boroughs or select within proximity of Columbia/Univ.?
Trees and Manhattan and the Bronx. 

3) How many walks? 
20
4) Include/Remove parks? (we discussed removing parks for high/low building walks but not for tree canopy).
Remove streets adjacent to parks. 

Lastly, I was contacted by a Geography major senior at New Paltz (Roz from ISERP’s younger brother-in-law) about possibly working for BEH. He might be able to be leveraged for some GPS work and possibly some GIS work. I spoke with him on the phone before my vacation. Attached is his resume.

GIS Plate
1) Any update with the COHD data I was supposed to receive from Luchsinger and March? 
2) Planning on getting data from Kathy at the end of this week. 
3) I'll be out on vacation on Friday - wedding in Kansas City. Heard to test out the wifi and the BBQ. 
4) Intern from SUNY New Paltz


Horizon
1) Estimating traffic across NYC, not sure if this is falling in James' queue or mine or where we stand on it. 
2) Registering for Probability and Stats in the fall (teacher: John Cunningham from Stats)


CartoDB.

I have 3 accounts with at least 20 tables. May be violating academic account privelege. 

John Snow
$429 yearly 
20 tables
200 MB of data

Mercator
$1299 yearly
Unlimited tables
500 MB of data



From 
##20140702


Make animation of Joe's Battery gps

1-26 flags nets

1990, 2000, 2010 cuts

collapsed

summed for each 2010 tract. for each 26 business categories.

economic census by county 1992.

Perzonowski
Geocoding, residential history



To Do: 

a) Take a look to limit the 35 MB file that Tanya sent. 
b) Take a look at PIPS data - XML (James).

-------
-------

1) Roz former ISERP younger brother looking for GIS internship/work for this summer

2) Einsten NETS food environment NYC 2010 Food Env.
Is this done?: sent Tanya the pop dens. tract vars for the 23 counties

3) I’m off 4 of the next 9 days so I’ll be a little touch and go.

4) This week - started refining the building and tree canopy based walks from the maps I sent out. Have to re-write some tree based stuff b/c intersects not working. Shouldn’t be a problem, just threw too much at ArcGIS.

5) Other stuff on my plate includes; Kathy’s Transit projects, revisiting some of the kernel density metrics

6) Review Tanya’s NETS methods paper.

7) Stuff on the horizon, Steve’s traffic counts for NYC. 

8) Any update with the COHD data I was supposed to receive from Luchsinger and March? 